---
title: Competition Rules
layout: default
background: bkg/max4-2.jpg
---

Competition Schedule
------------------------

There will be two competition days, see the [Schedule](https://egoi23.se/schedule). On each day contestants will be
given four tasks to solve in 5 hours. The tasks will be in random order,
that is **tasks are not sorted by difficulty.**

Practice Session
--------------------

There will be a 2-hour Practice Competition prior to the first
competition day to familiarise all contestants with the grading system
and contest environment. The [practice tasks](/competition/tasks) will be published before the
EGOI. Contestants may bring printed solutions to the practice tasks, on
paper only, during the Practice Competition.

Contestants may bring some of the following items to the practice
session:

-   keyboard, mouse, and/or mousepad,

-   small mascot,

-   English dictionary,

-   earmuffs or earplugs.

After the practice session, the items must be left at the competition
site if the contestants want to use them during the real contest. It is
forbidden to bring these items directly to the competition days. See the
[Supplies](#supplies) section below for more details.

Awards
----------

Gold, silver and bronze medals will be awarded to the contestants so
that approximately 50 percent of all European contestants receive a
medal and the ratio of gold to silver to bronze medals is approximately
1:2:3. For more details, see the [EGOI
regulations](https://egoi.org/regulations/#:~:text=6.%20Awards).

Competition Equipment and Environment
-----------------------------------------

Contestants will be provided with a computer set up with a virtual
machine. Please refer to the [Contest Environment
page](https://egoi23.se/competition/tech-info) for more
details. This virtual machine must be run at full-screen mode at all
times, except when solving a technical issue as instructed by the
Technical Committee.

Documentation for [C++](http://cppreference.com/) and
[Python3](https://docs.python.org/3.8/) will be available
in the contest system.

Tasks
---------

Each contestant will receive the official English version of tasks on
each contest day. For those contestants who requested the translation of
the tasks, an additional version of the tasks in the requested language
will also be provided. Each contestant will have online access to the
official English version of tasks and all task translations in
electronic format (PDF).

On each competition day, contestants will be given four tasks to solve
in 5 hours. The tasks will be in random order, that is **tasks are not
sorted by difficulty**.

The Jury guarantees that there are C++17 solutions to every task which
fit within the specified memory and time limits by a generous margin. It
is also guaranteed that every task is fully solvable in Python3, even
though this solution might be more involved and closer to the time and
memory limits (e.g. recursion might be too slow).

If the contestants are participating from an online hub organised by
their country, it is the responsibility of the hub organisers to arrange
for printing of the task statements as needed.

Supplies
------------

In the competition site, the contestants will be provided with blank
paper and writing tools. The contestants can ask for more in case they
run out. On the competition days, contestants may not bring anything
into the competition rooms, except for the following items under the
proviso that they cannot transmit or store any data in electronic or
printed format (other than the purpose for which they have been
designed):

-   clothing,

-   reasonable jewellery (not watches),

-   pens and pencils,

-   snacks (see the details below),

-   necessary medication and toiletries (with approval).

For the case of snacks, the competition site organisers shall provide
all contestants with some amount of snacks. In cases when a contestant
would still like to bring in snacks, the contestant should make sure
that the snacks are neither noisy nor smelly, and are not disturbing for
other contestants in any other way. In case of complaints from other
contestants during the contest, the snack might be removed.

Any attempts to bring any other items unlisted above into the
competition rooms are considered cheating. In particular, the following
items are strictly prohibited in the competitions:

-   any additional computing equipment (e.g., calculators, laptops,
    tablets),

-   any books, manuals, written or printed materials,

-   any data storage medium (e.g., CD-ROMs, USB drives, flash cards,
    micro-drives),

-   any communication devices (e.g., mobile phones, radios of any sort),

-   watches of any type.

The following items must be brought to (and left at) the practice
session if the contestant wishes to use them during the competition
days:

-   keyboard (without wireless, calculation, and/or programmable
    functions),

-   mouse (without wireless, calculation, and/or programmable
    functions),

-   mousepad,

-   small mascot,

-   English dictionary,

-   earmuffs or earplugs.

Any electronic or printed materials provided by the organisers during a
competition round may be used by the contestants (e.g., a Users Guide to
the Contest System or any electronic documentation or reference manuals
provided in the installed contest environment or on the provided grading
system).

Assistance and Clarification
--------------------------------

Contestants may ask the support staff for assistance at any time.
Contestants may use the system to call for the support staff for task
related issues, and ask the room supervisor in case of technical
difficulties.

During the competition, contestants may submit Assistance and
Clarification Requests concerning competition tasks, rules, and/or
grading. Contestants may submit Assistance and Clarification Requests by
using the grading system. Contestants will receive a reply from the
Scientific Committee via the grading system.

Questions may be expressed either in the contestant's preferred language
or in English. If applicable, delegation leaders will translate the
questions into English after they are submitted and before they are sent
to the Scientific Committee. The Scientific Committee will respond to
every question submitted by the contestants during the competition.
Since this might take some time, contestants should continue working
while waiting for an answer to their questions.

Contestants should phrase their task-related questions so that a yes/no
answer will have a clear meaning. Contestants should not ask negative
questions such as "Isn't it true that...?" because the yes/no answer to
such questions may cause confusion depending on the native language of
the contestants. Instead, positive questions of the form "Is it true
that...?" are recommended.

Contestants are free to phrase their technical or contest related issues
in any form. These issues/questions should not be related to tasks at
all. Such questions will be fully clarified.

Grading System
------------------

EGOI 2023 will use [Kattis](http://open.kattis.com) as the
grading system. Login details to the grading system will be given out on
each competition day.

Contestants will be able to see the score of their own submissions on
the grading system, but not a scoreboard or their overall rank.

Submitting
--------------

Contestants must submit their solutions for tasks by using the grading
system. The submission rate of each contestant is limited. A contestant
can submit a solution only if they have submitted less than 15 solutions
during the last 15 minutes. However, you can always submit 60 seconds
after your last submission.

There is no restriction on the number of times a program may be edited,
compiled, and run on the contestants' computers.

Each submitted source program must be written in **C++17 or Python3**,
the source code file must be smaller than 128 KB and the evaluation
server must be able to compile it in less than 30 seconds while using at
most 512 MiB of memory. The versions and compilation procedures used by
the grading system can be found at the following links:
[C++](https://open.kattis.com/help/cpp) and
[Python3](https://open.kattis.com/help/python3); note that
they differ a bit to the [versions installed at the contestant's
computers](https://egoi23.se/competition/tech-info).

The contestants submit their solutions via the grading system and can
use the system to view the status of their submissions. When a solution
is submitted, it will be compiled and graded. After this, the contestant
can view the score achieved by their submission. Each submission will be
graded on several test cases.

The possible judgements are (for more details, see [Kattis
Judgements](https://open.kattis.com/help/judgements)):

-   Accepted

-   Compile Error

-   Run Time Error

-   Time Limit Exceeded

-   Wrong Answer

-   Output Limit Exceeded

-   Memory Limit Exceeded

-   Judge Error (this should not happen and means the judging system
    itself contains an error).

Test cases are grouped into subtasks, each worth some points. The
grading system will show the score of each subtask and the outcome of
the first non-Accepted test cases in each subtask, if such a case
exists. However, input and output data are not shown to the contestant.

A subtask is solved if every test in it is solved correctly and within
time and memory limits. A submission will receive points for all
subtasks that it solves.

Scoring
-------

The contestants will see their final score for each task in the contest
system. However, there is a small chance that the score will change
later due to appeals: submissions may be re-graded, and the final score
will be that yielded by the last grading.

Each task is worth a total of 100 points if solved fully, and partial
credit will be given as specified in the task statements.

Tasks might be divided into several subtasks, each worth a portion of
the total points. Other tasks might use a different way of calculating
the score; if so this will be specified in the task statement.

The contestant's score on a problem is the **maximum score over all
their submissions** on the problem. For example, say the first subtask
is solved in one submission and the second subtask in another, then the
contestant might not get the points for both of these subtasks. In order
to receive the points for both subtasks, the contestant should submit a
single solution solving both of them to the grading system.

<!---
The scores will be calculated as follows:

-   For each submission, the score for each test case is calculated
    according to the submitted program or output.

-   For each submission, the score for each subtask is the minimum of
    the scores for the test cases in the subtask.

-   The final score for each subtask is the maximum of the scores for
    this subtask across all submissions.

-   The final score for each task is the sum of the scores for its
    subtasks.

For example, consider a contestant who made two submissions on a task
that contains two subtasks. If the first submitted solution got 30
points for the first subtask and 10 points for the second subtask, and
the second solution got 0 points for the first subtask and 40 points for
the second subtask, then the final score for this task will be 70.
--->

The End of the Competition
------------------------------

The remaining time of the competition will be displayed in the grading
system. Should a contest extension occur, it will be announced in the
grading system in the form of a notification. At the end of the
competition, the grading system will stop receiving submissions and the
contestants must stop using the computer immediately and remain seated
until instructed otherwise. For online delegations, the virtual machines
must be kept running in full-screen mode until the Technical Committee
authorises their shutdown.

Cheating
------------

Contestants must use only the virtual machine and account assigned to
them on each competition day. In particular:

-   contestants must not attempt to submit illegal programs, nor try to
    tamper with or compromise the grading system;

-   contestants must not attempt to gain access to root or any account
    other than the one assigned to them;

-   contestants must not attempt to store information in any part of the
    file system other than the home directory for their account or the
    `/tmp` directory;

-   contestants must not use any other computing device than the one
    assigned to them;

-   contestants must not attempt to access any machine on the network or
    the Internet, other than to access the contest system for usual
    purposes (e.g. submitting tasks, viewing submission results,
    downloading sample data, submitting Clarification Requests), call
    for the support staff through the system; even running a single
    "ping" command is strictly prohibited and may lead to
    disqualification;

-   contestants must not attempt to reboot or alter the boot sequence of
    any workstation;

-   contestants must not communicate with other people during the
    competition, other than the support staff, and/or
    Scientific/Technical Committee members.

All of the above actions are considered cheating, and may result in
disqualification.

Appeal Process
------------------

Submitted solutions are evaluated using data which conform to the
specification given in the problem statement, but which are hidden from
contestants during the competition.

Provisional grades, based on these tests, are available immediately to
contestants. In the event of an error with the test data, the Scientific
Committee will attempt to, but is not obligated to follow the following
process:

-   Every attempt will be made to fix test data and regrade all
    solutions as quickly as possible.

-   Additional test data may be added only when the grading data does
    not meet the intention of the Scientific Committee from before the
    contest.

-   Late detections of issues, especially during the last 2 hours of the
    contest, may be grounds for extending the length of the contest.

This hidden data will be made available electronically in the
competition area during the scheduled time for analysis after each
competition. Contestants and team leaders may use the contestant's
workstations to verify that the grades are assessed correctly.

A Team Leader may file an appeal by completing an Appeal Form and
submitting it to the Scientific Committee at least 30 minutes prior to
the final GA meeting of that competition day. The GA will be informed of
where Appeal Forms can be collected, and where they can submit them to
the Scientific Committee. Every appeal will be reviewed by the
Scientific Committee and the team leader will be notified of the
committee's decision. All appeals and their disposition will be
summarised at the final GA meeting of that competition day. In the event
that every submission of a task should be re-graded and re-scored as a
consequence of an accepted appeal, note that re-scoring may result in a
higher or lower score for any contestant. Should anyone's score change
after grading results have been published, the new results will be
published again. Score changes resulting from this are not appealable.

Proctoring - for online delegations only
---------------------------------------------

Due to travel distance, some countries will take part in EGOI 2023
online. To maintain the integrity of the competition, the host asks the
teams to assist in enforcing the competition rules. The following
proctoring rules are introduced.

Each competition site, regardless of the number of participants,
requires at least two proctors, whose role is to ensure that the contest
rules are observed and a fair competition is held. This includes, but is
not limited to:

-   ensuring that only the mandated hardware and software is used

-   ensuring that no disallowed communication is held

-   ensuring that participants do not use any forbidden sources of
    information in the form of printed or hand-written notes, books or
    Internet resources

The proctors should organise a suitable competition area and provide the
contestants with appropriate supplies (writing papers, printing, snacks
...). They are expected to be the first point of contact for the
contestants for any technical issues. The proctors will also be in
contact with the organising committee to ensure that the contest starts
and ends according to the schedule and relay any important
announcements. It is highly encouraged to organise a joint competition
site for all the participants of a single country.

At least one of the proctors must be present physically at the contest
site. This proctor should not have any conflict of interest with the
performance of the participant, e.g. contestant's relatives or the main
coach of the contestant.

The General Assembly members who participate in any of the translation
sessions must not communicate with the contestants prior to the contest
start. Therefore, each site requires at least one proctor to help with
the setup who did not participate in the translation session.

Recording - for online delegations only
-------------------------------------------

To allow the organising committee to investigate in case of any disputes
or a justified suspicion, we kindly ask the organising site to record a
video of the competition hall. The recording(s) should be able to, as a
whole, maintain the identity of the contestants throughout the contest
and record audio in the competition hall. For example, it is sufficient
for the contestant to stand up and wave at the camera at their
workstation prior to the start of the contest. You will be asked to
upload these recordings to a server residing in Germany and run by the
EGOI organising committee. Note that the quality of these recordings is
not overly important, as the videos will not be publicly shared.

These videos will be deleted at the latest 14 days after the contest
ends. They may only be viewed by the following people:

-   the EGOI chair

-   a single dedicated person from the Technical Committee

-   a single dedicated person from the Scientific Committee
